OpenCV is an open source library for computer vision, ML, face detection, etc.

Computer vision is the branch of AI which deals with analysing, manipulating and processing images, videos etc, to extract useful information.
(If AI is analogous to computer being able to think, CV is computer able to see and understand).

Some key info about images:

    - Images are made out of pixels.
    - Colour image pixels have three main colours: red, blue, green in varying intensities. 
    - The values r,b,g vary from 0 to 255.
    - Gray scale images (black & white) also are represnted by pixel intesity varying from 0 to 255.
    - Essentially, r=b=g gives a grey shade.
    - Black => r=b=g=0 (or 0 in gray scale)
    - White => r=b=g=255 (or 255 in gray scale)
    - A computer stores images as 2D array of values of pixel intensities(3D array in case of coloued images).
    - Lesser value indicates darker shade, while higher value indicates brighter shade.
    - uint8 is the datatype of images

Affine Transformation is transformation that preserves collinearity, parallelism and ratio of distances between points.  
It can be seen as linear transformation (matrix multiplication) with translation. Both rotation and translation can be pictured as affine transformation.
    
Four cc code is a coder decoder program that is used to convert audio/video to difgital files as vice versa.
Different codecs have different properties etc.

We want to detect as many edges as possible. Noise in a image is a false edge. They can be reduced by smoothening the image/blurring it slightly.
Useful in self driving cars, etc

Color spaces are a way to represent the color channels present in the image that gives the image that particular hue. 
Types: BGR, HSV, CMYK

We resize images as it easy and faster to handle. Training NN on resized images with lesser pizels results in less time.

Blur: 
    low instensity pass filter. 
    Removes low intensity edges
    smoothens Images (more like continuous transition than abrupt)
    noise removal (noise is considered as high intensity)

Erode:
    erodes away edges/boundaries of foregrounnd object
    diminish features of foreground object
    used to reduce white noises
    shrinks object
    detach connected objects

Dilate:
    to make features more prominent
    usually followed by erosion, to increase object size, without increasing noise 
    to incrase area of foreground object
    attach connected objects

Adaptive Thresholding is useful incases of variable lighting in different regions of image

Face Detection is just identifying if a face is present or not (1 or 0). Open cv has pretrained classifiers for this.
Haar_claasifier for various things: faces, smiles, russian name plate, eye etc. it is done using edges, so gray image is fine.
min neighbors is to verify if the detection is valid. If u set it to 0 or 1, many unnecessary things are detected. If u keep it 3, it will perform better 

.npy files are faster to read, and used to store numpy arrays, occupy less space
